OSSM-8264 Add sections on operator & component versioning in OSSM 2 and 3 differences (#93570)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-migrating-read-me-new-operator.adoc

* The `{istio}` resource replaces the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.
* The `IstioCNI` resource manages the {istio} Container Network Interface (CNI).
* Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Observability components are installed and configured separately.

[id="ossm-about-operator-component-versioning_{context}"]
== About Operator and component versioning

All OpenShift Operators use versioning and manage at least one underlying component (operand), which is often versioned independently through a custom resource definition (CRD).

In {SMProduct} 2, the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource managed multiple operands, including {istio}, Kiali, and Jaeger. Each component maintained its own version, resulting in three levels of versioning:

* The Operator version
* The `ServiceMeshControlPlane` version
* The individual component versions

For example, the {SMProduct} 2.6 Operator managed the 2.6 version of the control plane, which included {istio} 1.20, Kiali 1.73, and other component versions. Each Operator version also supported multiple control plane versions. The {SMProduct} 2.6 Operator supported versions 2.4, 2.5, and 2.6 of the control plane.

> {SMProduct} 3 simplifies versioning. The Operator manages only the `{istio}` resource, eliminating the additional control plane layer. Each Operator version supports a single component version. For example, {SMProduct} 3.0 supports only {istio} 1.24. While additional {istio} versions might be available to assist with upgrades, the Operator supports only the latest {istio} version for a given release.

Reviewer: `Operator version supports a single component version`
I'm not sure about this, @longmuir could you please confirm? I though that e.g. 3.2.0 operator will support 3 Istio versions e.g. 1.24.z, 1.25.z and 1.26.z

Reviewer 2: In this context, "support" is intended to mean that we will continue to provide CVE fixes along our published support lifecycle table, which is per operator version (e.g. 3.0, 3.1, etc). Each of those versions maps to an Istio version (the latest one available with the operator). We may not continue to provide CVE fixes for the older versions of Istio that are available with the operator, especially if the OSSM version associated with it is no longer supported (e.g. When 3.1 EOLs, we will likely no longer patch Istio 1.24, even if it can be used with 3.2)... so this is what is meant by "not supported" here. I agree that might not be clear here though. This is also true for z-streams, as we only support the latest one (even if customers can still use older ones).

I tried to reword to make this clearer... though feel free to make further adjustments:
```suggestion
{SMProduct} 3 simplifies versioning. The Operator manages only the `{istio}` resource, which is only responsible for {istio} and does not manage Kiali or other components. This means the `{istio}` resource only needs to specify the {istio} component version. Each release of {SMProduct} provides support for the latest available release of {istio} per Operator version. For example, {SMProduct} 3.0.0 supports {istio} 1.24.0. While additional {istio} versions might be available in the Operator to assist with upgrades, product support including patches for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) are only provided for the latest {istio} version for a given Operator release. Thus, users are expected to update to the latest available version of {istio} for their given Operator release.
```

Reviewer: Thank you for explanation. The suggestion makes it clear.

{SMProduct} 3 uses an Operator that is maintained upstream as the Sail Operator in the *istio-ecosystem* organization on GitHub. The {SMProduct} 3 Operator is smaller in scope and includes significant changes from the Operator used in {SMProduct} 2:

* The `{istio}` resource replaces the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource.
* The `IstioCNI` resource manages the {istio} Container Network Interface (CNI).
* Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Observability components are installed and configured separately.

[id="ossm-about-operator-component-versioning_{context}"]
== About Operator and component versioning

All OpenShift Operators use versioning and manage at least one underlying component (operand), which is often versioned independently through a custom resource definition (CRD).

> In {SMProduct} 2, the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource managed multiple operands, including {istio}, Kiali, and Jaeger. Each component maintained its own version, resulting in three levels of versioning:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In {SMProduct} 2, the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource managed multiple operands, including {istio}, Kiali, and Jaeger. Each component maintained its own version containing the following three levels of versioning:
```

* The Operator version
* The `ServiceMeshControlPlane` version
* The individual component versions

For example, the {SMProduct} 2.6 Operator managed the 2.6 version of the control plane, which included {istio} 1.20, Kiali 1.73, and other component versions. Each Operator version also supported multiple control plane versions. The {SMProduct} 2.6 Operator supported versions 2.4, 2.5, and 2.6 of the control plane.

{SMProduct} 3 simplifies versioning by limiting Operator management to the {istio} resource. The {istio} resource is responsible only for the {istio} component and does not manage Kiali or other components. So, the {istio} resource specifies only the {istio} component version.

> Each {SMProduct} release supports the latest available {istio} version for that Operator version. For example, {SMProduct} 3.0.0 supports {istio} 1.24.0. While the Operator might contain other {istio} versions to support upgrades, product support, including patches for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), covers only the latest {istio} version in a given Operator release. For each Operator release, you should update to the most recent {istio} version available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each {SMProduct} release supports the latest available {istio} version for that Operator version. For example, {SMProduct} 3.0.0 supports {istio} 1.24.0. While the Operator might contain other {istio} versions to support upgrades, product support, including patches for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), covers only the latest {istio} version in a given Operator release. For each Operator release, update to the most recent {istio} version available.
```

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#s

> Whenever possible, rewrite in a more direct way. Do not use should to refer to an action that must be performed.
